for the Sabres tonight in honor of one
of the greatest players in franchise
history
good evening I'm Kendra England this is
a special edition of Eyewitness News at
11:00 tonight the famous French
Connection lost its first member today
59 year old Rick Martin former Sabres
forward and Hall of Famer died in a car
crash after suffering what police
believe was some sort of medical
emergency
Melissa O'Grady lives around the corner
from where 59 year old hockey legend
Rick Martin crashed his car on Main
Street in clearance at 12:15 Saturday
afternoon this is where the accident
happened witnesses say they saw Martin
driving slumped over possibly with his
eyes closed before he struck a utility
pole and then struck the cement
partition before coming to a stop to
pass advice tonight citizens were
rendering first aid CPR one of those
good Samaritans happens to be a
firefighter who lives directly across
the street from where the crash happened
he declined to talk to us on camera but
says he performed CPR on Martin until
paramedics arrived
Martin was rushed to Millard Fillmore
Suburban Hospital where he died minutes
later I'm a trooper in the convictions
have stopped all new Rick previous to
action personally so it takes a toll it
always does it takes a toll especially
you never want to see life the sudden
loss taking everyone by surprise
although she heard the crash and saw the
aftermath of the collision a Grady
didn't find out who was behind the wheel
until hours later we all started crying
and they're like we gotta find out what
happened and I get online and look it up
and you know it said right here on Main
Street by salt Road and I was
oh my god that's the crash I heard now
30 days tell Eyewitness News Tonight an
autopsy is going to be performed
tomorrow to try and determine Martin's
exact cause of death
and there were plenty of heavy hearts in
downtown Buffalo this afternoon only
hours after the news broke the Sabres
took to the ice against Ottawa the team
honored number seven before tonight's
game channel 7 sports director Jeff
Russo here now with more on what
happened today
for the Sabres in Tripoli the hockey
world those who knew Rick Martin will
call the former Sabres great tonight a
fantastic hockey player but even a
better person Martin of course played
left wing on the Sabres most famous lie
in the French Connection and it's being
remembered tonight is one of the most
successful and popular players in team
history
Martin drafted by the Sanford back in
1971 selected fifth overall when I've
been playing close to 750 games for the
Sabres from 1971 to 1981 he was a
seven-time all-star selection and the
first player in franchise history to
score 50 or more goals when he tell him
52 through the 1974-1975 campaign no
mark made his home in Akron and was
recently reunited with his French
Connection line mates just a couple
weeks ago when he joined Jill Barbarella
and Rennie ro-bear on the ice at the
arena to welcome a new Sabres owner
Terry Pegula there's a look at Martin's
career numbers with the Sabres 743 total
games including 62 in the postseason had
681 regular season goals and entering
this season still remain in the top
three in seven of the Sabres career
leaders categories on the stand was
released this statement on the passing
of Martin earlier today saying the
Buffalo Sabres are saddened to announce
the passing of Buffalo Sabres Hall of
Famer a member of the famed French
Connection
Rick Martin it was not only one of the
greatest players in franchise history
also a great friend in the Sabres
organization and the entire community
the thoughts and prayers of the entire
organization go out to his wife and two
sons as we mentioned it was only a
couple of weeks ago when Martin rejoined
his French Connection blind mates on the
ice for a ceremony to welcome in Terry
Pegula to the franchise jeweller Perot
was also on hand back on February 23rd I
caught up with the Sabres great tonight
on the phone from his home and foot back
Burroughs says he found out about
Martin's passing for
robear and was actually watching the
French Connection ceremony this morning
prior to hearing the sad news morning he
was buried and he knew whether the
network comparable says he remembers
plenty of great times with Martin after
planning on the same line for seven
years together word of Barnes passing
quickly spread to the HSBC Arena our
shot scepter was there for tonight's way
that the Sabre is dedicated in Martin's
honor we lost a heck of a guy to date
Sabres head coach Lindy Roth knew Rick
Martin in many capacities the two first
met when Roth was drafted by the
franchise in 1979 he was a teammate he
was as part of the coaching staff
I'm going to play golf with he was a
great person good person rough owner
Terry Pegula and other former players
remember the man they called Rico before
Sunday's game that's tough he was always
laughing I never saw him when he wasn't
smiling I'm just thinking well the good
dears yet and problem here with so god
bless you richard a pregame tribute and
lengthy moment of silence preceded the
contest against Ottawa one man who has
been with the Sabres franchise since its
inception is equipment man rips emmonak
who after Sunday's win over the Ottawa
Senators was visibly emotional when
remembering his longtime friend Rico it
was probably one of the best players
ever had as a person as a player he
loved hockey he loved golf he loved his
family and you love the people around
them there's one thing
pretty well in a touching salute
following the team's victory as players
skated to center ice and pointed their
sticks toward Martin's retired number
seven at HSBC Arena Sean Stebner shingle
7 Eyewitness News